.TH "DIE-KILL" "1" "October 2014" "die-kill 0.1.25" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
die-kill -- Kill processes that match patterns.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
die kill [\-elr] [\-e|\-\-exec] [\-l|\-\-long] [\-r|\-\-relax] [\-\-noop]
.br
    [\-p|\-\-pid\-file=<file...>] [\-s|\-\-signal=<signal>] <args> <ptn...>
.br
die k [\-elr] [\-e|\-\-exec] [\-l|\-\-long] [\-r|\-\-relax] [\-\-noop]
.br
    [\-p|\-\-pid\-file=<file...>] [\-s|\-\-signal=<signal>] <args> <ptn...>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Matched patterns are resolved to a list of process ids (pids) and each pid is sent \fB\-\-signal\fR.
.PP
By default \fBprocess.kill()\fR is used, specify the \fB\-\-exec\fR option to send signals using kill(1).
.PP
Errors encountered when attempting to kill processes are reported and the rest of the execution is aborted, use \fB\-r | \-\-relax\fR to ignore these errors and continue to send signals. This is useful when using the \fB\-\-pid\-file\fR option and the processes may or may not be running.
.PP
When \fB\-\-noop\fR is specified the behaviour is the same as the \fBmatch\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-p, \-\-pid\-file=[file...]\fR: Read pattern(s) from file(s).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-s, \-\-signal=[signal]\fR: Send signal (default TERM).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-e, \-\-exec\fR: Execute kill(1) not process.kill().
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-l, \-\-long\fR: Include more information (long listing).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-r, \-\-relax\fR: Ignore kill errors. 
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-noop\fR: Print matched processes, do not send a signal.
.EL
.SH "SIGNALS"
.PP
Signals may be specified lowercase or uppercase with or without a \fBSIG\fR prefix. Numeric signals are resolved for the following list:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
HUP 1
.IP "\[ci]" 4
INT 2
.IP "\[ci]" 4
QUIT 3
.IP "\[ci]" 4
ABRT 6
.IP "\[ci]" 4
KILL 9
.IP "\[ci]" 4
ALRM 14
.IP "\[ci]" 4
TERM 15
.EL
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to muji noop@xpm.io.
