.TH "DIE" "1" "October 2014" "die 0.1.9" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
die -- Kill groups of processes.
.SH "USAGE"

die <args> <ptn...> \-\- <psargs>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Executes ps(1) and parses the output to an object graph, patterns may then be matched against the graph.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBcolumn, c\fR: Print column names.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBgraph, g\fR: Print parsed object graph.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmatch, m\fR: Print processes that match patterns.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBkill, k\fR: Kill processes that match patterns.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBhelp\fR: Show help for commands.
.EL
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-f, \-\-filter=[name...\fR: Filter columns, only include named columns.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-c, \-\-cmd\fR: Executable name only in command column. 
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-[no]\-color\fR: Enable or disable terminal colors.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-U=[uid\fR: Display processes for a real uid.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-u=[username\fR: Display processes for a username.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-help\fR: Display this help and exit.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-version\fR: Print version and exit.
.EL
.SH "USAGE"
.PP
The default arguments passed to ps(1) are \fB\-axf\fR.
.PP
To change the arguments for ps(1) use '\-\-' followed by the arguments, for example:

.SP
  die c
.br
  die c \-\- \-ax
.PP
Column names output by ps(1) are converted to lowercase.
.SH "PATTERNS"
.PP
Patterns are strings that are converted to regular expressions. Be sure to single quote patterns as they often contain shell special characters.
.PP
If a pattern is a valid integer it is treated as a pid and will only ever match the pid column, it is not wrapped as a regular expression.
.PP
If a pattern argument does not appear to be a regular expression (//gim) then if is wrapped as a regular expression exact match such that \fBtail\fR is converted to \fB/^tail$/\fR.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
Print column names:

  die c
.PP
Print parsed object graph:

  die g
.PP
Print list of all executable names:

  die g \-c cmd
.PP
Print the \fBpid\fR and \fBcmd\fR nodes of the graph:

  die g pid cmd
.PP
Print process matches:

.SP
  die m '/^tail'
.br
  die m \-c tail
.PP
Send TERM to matched process pids:

  die k \-c tail
.PP
Send INT to matched process pids:

  die k \-c tail \-s int
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to muji noop@xpm.io.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ps(1), kill(1)
